Bohrium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol Bh and atomic 
number 107. It is named after Danish physicist Niels Bohr. As a synthetic 
element, it can be created in a laboratory but is not found in nature. 
All known isotopes of bohrium are extremely radioactive; the most stable 
known isotope is 270Bh with a half-life of approximately 61 seconds, though 
the unconfirmed 278Bh may have a longer half-life of about 690 seconds.

In the periodic table, it is a d-block transactinide element. It is a member
 of the 7th period and belongs to the group 7 elements as the fifth member of 
the 6d series of transition metals. Chemistry experiments have confirmed 
that bohrium behaves as the heavier homologue to rhenium in group 7. The 
chemical properties of bohrium are characterized only partly, but they compare 
well with the chemistry of the other group 7 elements.
The heaviest atomic nuclei are created in nuclear reactions that combine two 
other nuclei of unequal size into one; roughly, the more unequal the two nuclei 
in terms of mass, the greater the possibility that the two react. The material 
made of the heavier nuclei is made into a target, which is then bombarded by 
the beam of lighter nuclei. Two nuclei can only fuse into one if they approach 
each other closely enough; normally, nuclei (all positively charged) repel 
each other due to electrostatic repulsion. The strong interaction can overcome 
this repulsion but only within a very short distance from a nucleus; beam nuclei 
are thus greatly accelerated in order to make such repulsion insignificant 
compared to the velocity of the beam nucleus. Coming close alone is not enough 
for two nuclei to fuse: when two nuclei approach each other, they usually remain 
together for approximately 10−20 seconds and then part ways (not necessarily in 
the same composition as before the reaction) rather than form a single nucleus. 
If fusion does occur, the temporary merger—termed a compound nucleus—is an 
excited state. To lose its excitation energy and reach a more stable state, a 
compound nucleus either fissions or ejects one or several neutrons, which carry 
away the energy. This occurs in approximately 10−16 seconds after the initial 
collision.

The beam passes through the target and reaches the next chamber, the separator; 
if a new nucleus is produced, it is carried with this beam. In the separator, 
the newly produced nucleus is separated from other nuclides (that of the 
original beam and any other reaction products) and transferred to a surface-
barrier detector, which stops the nucleus.