Chromium is a chemical element with the symbol Cr and atomic number 24. 
It is the first element in group 6. It is a steely-grey, lustrous, hard, 
and brittle transition metal. Chromium is the main additive in stainless 
steel, to which it adds anti-corrosive properties. Chromium is also highly 
valued as a metal that is able to be highly polished while resisting 
tarnishing. Polished chromium reflects almost 70% of the visible spectrum, 
with almost 90% of infrared light being reflected.

Ferrochromium alloy is commercially produced from chromite by silicothermic 
or aluminothermic reactions and chromium metal by roasting and leaching 
processes followed by reduction with carbon and then aluminium. Chromium 
metal is of high value for its high corrosion resistance and hardness. A 
major development in steel production was the discovery that steel could be 
made highly resistant to corrosion and discoloration by adding metallic 
chromium to form stainless steel. Stainless steel and chrome plating 
(electroplating with chromium) together comprise 85% of the commercial use.

In the United States, trivalent chromium (Cr(III)) ion is considered an 
essential nutrient in humans for insulin, sugar, and lipid metabolism. However, 
in 2014, the European Food Safety Authority, acting for the European Union, 
concluded that there was insufficient evidence for chromium to be recognized 
as essential.

While chromium metal and Cr(III) ions are considered non-toxic, hexavalent 
chromium, Cr(VI), is toxic and carcinogenic. Abandoned chromium production 
sites often require environmental cleanup.

Chromium is the fourth transition metal found on the periodic table, and has an 
electron configuration of [Ar] 3d5 4s1. It is also the first element in the 
periodic table whose ground-state electron configuration violates the Aufbau 
principle. This occurs again later in the periodic table with other elements 
and their electron configurations, such as copper, niobium, and molybdenum. 
