Flerovium is a superheavy artificial chemical element with the symbol Fl 
and atomic number 114. It is an extremely radioactive synthetic element. 
The element is named after the Flerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions of 
the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia, where the 
element was discovered in 1998. The name of the laboratory, in turn, 
honours the Russian physicist Georgy Flyorov . The name was adopted by 
IUPAC on 30 May 2012. The name and symbol had previously been proposed 
for element 102 (nobelium), but was not accepted by IUPAC at that time.

In the periodic table of the elements, it is a transactinide element in 
the p-block. It is a member of the 7th period and is the heaviest known 
member of the carbon group; it is also the heaviest element whose 
chemistry has been investigated. Initial chemical studies performed in 
2007–2008 indicated that flerovium was unexpectedly volatile for a group 
14 element; in preliminary results it even seemed to exhibit properties 
similar to those of the noble gases. More recent results show that 
flerovium's reaction with gold is similar to that of copernicium, 
showing that it is a very volatile element that may even be gaseous at 
standard temperature and pressure, that it would show metallic 
properties, consistent with it being the heavier homologue of lead, 
and that it would be the least reactive metal in group 14. The 
question of whether flerovium behaves more like a metal or a noble gas 
is still unresolved as of 2022.

About 90 atoms of flerovium have been observed: 58 were synthesized 
directly, and the rest were made from the radioactive decay of heavier 
elements. All of these flerovium atoms have been shown to have mass 
numbers from 284 to 290. The most stable known flerovium isotope, 
flerovium-289, has a half-life of around 1.9 seconds, but it is 
possible that the unconfirmed flerovium-290 (with one extra neutron) 
may have a longer half-life of 19 seconds.
