Gallium is a chemical element with the symbol Ga and atomic number 31. 
Elemental gallium is a soft, silvery metal at standard temperature and 
pressure; however in its liquid state it becomes silvery white. If too 
much force is applied, the gallium may fracture conchoidally. It is in 
group 13 of the periodic table, and thus has similarities to the other 
metals of the group, aluminium, indium, and thallium. Gallium does not 
occur as a free element in nature, but as gallium (III) compounds in 
trace amounts in zinc ores such as sphalerite and in bauxite. Elemental 
gallium is a liquid at temperatures greater than 29.76 degree C (85.57 
degree F), and will melt in a person's hands at normal human body 
temperature of 37.0 degree C (98.6 degree F).

The melting point of gallium is used as a temperature reference point. 
Gallium alloys are used in thermometers as a non-toxic and environmentally 
friendly alternative to mercury, and can withstand higher temperatures 
than mercury. An even lower melting point of -19 degree C (-2 degree F),
well below the freezing point of water, is claimed for the alloy galinstan 
(62–95% gallium, 5–22% indium, and 0–16% tin by weight), but that may be 
the freezing point with the effect of supercooling.

Since its discovery in 1875, gallium has been used to make alloys with low 
melting points. It is also used in semiconductors as a dopant in 
semiconductor substrates.

Gallium is predominantly used in electronics. Gallium arsenide, the primary 
chemical compound of gallium in electronics, is used in microwave circuits, 
high-speed switching circuits, and infrared circuits. Semiconducting gallium 
nitride and indium gallium nitride produce blue and violet light-emitting 
diodes (LEDs) and diode lasers. Gallium is also used in the production of 
artificial gadolinium gallium garnet for jewelry. Gallium is considered a 
technology-critical element.

Gallium has no known natural role in biology. Gallium(III) behaves in a 
similar manner to ferric salts in biological systems and has been used in 
some medical applications, including pharmaceuticals and radiopharmaceuticals.
