In his report on The Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements in 1869, the 
Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev predicted the existence of several unknown
 chemical elements, including one that would fill a gap in the carbon family, 
located between silicon and tin. Because of its position in his periodic 
table, Mendeleev called it ekasilicon (Es), and he estimated its atomic 
weight to be 70 (later 72).

In mid-1885, at a mine near Freiberg, Saxony, a new mineral was discovered 
and named argyrodite because of its high silver content. The chemist Clemens 
Winkler analyzed this new mineral, which proved to be a combination of silver,
 sulfur, and a new element. Winkler was able to isolate the new element in 1886 
and found it similar to antimony. He initially considered the new element to 
be eka-antimony, but was soon convinced that it was instead eka-silicon. Before 
Winkler published his results on the new element, he decided that he would name 
his element neptunium, since the recent discovery of planet Neptune in 1846 had 
similarly been preceded by mathematical predictions of its existence. However, 
the name "neptunium" had already been given to another proposed chemical element 
(though not the element that today bears the name neptunium, which was discovered 
in 1940). So instead, Winkler named the new element germanium (from the Latin word,
 Germania, for Germany) in honor of his homeland. Argyrodite proved empirically to 
be Ag8GeS6. Because this new element showed some similarities with the elements 
arsenic and antimony, its proper place in the periodic table was under consideration, 
but its similarities with Dmitri Mendeleev's predicted element "ekasilicon" confirmed 
that place on the periodic table. With further material from 500 kg of ore from the 
mines in Saxony, Winkler confirmed the chemical properties of the new element in 
1887. He also determined an atomic weight of 72.32 by analyzing pure germanium 
tetrachloride (GeCl4), while Lecoq de Boisbaudran deduced 72.3 by a comparison of 
the lines in the spark spectrum of the element.