Gold is a chemical element with the symbol Au (from Latin: aurum) and atomic 
number 79, making it one of the higher atomic number elements that occur 
naturally. It is a bright, slightly orange-yellow, dense, soft, malleable, 
and ductile metal in a pure form. Chemically, gold is a transition metal 
and a group 11 element. It is one of the least reactive chemical elements 
and is solid under standard conditions. Gold often occurs in free elemental 
(native) form, as nuggets or grains, in rocks, veins, and alluvial deposits. 
It occurs in a solid solution series with the native element silver (as 
electrum), naturally alloyed with other metals like copper and palladium, 
and mineral inclusions such as within pyrite. Less commonly, it occurs in 
minerals as gold compounds, often with tellurium (gold tellurides).

Gold is resistant to most acids, though it does dissolve in aqua regia (a 
mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid), forming a soluble 
tetrachloroaurate anion. Gold is insoluble in nitric acid, which dissolves 
silver and base metals, a property long used to refine gold and confirm the 
presence of gold in metallic substances, giving rise to the term acid test. 
Gold also dissolves in alkaline solutions of cyanide, which are used in 
mining and electroplating. Gold dissolves in mercury, forming amalgam 
alloys, and as the gold acts simply as a solute, this is not a chemical 
reaction.

A relatively rare element, gold is a precious metal that has been used 
for coinage, jewelry, and other arts throughout recorded history. In the 
past, a gold standard was often implemented as a monetary policy. Still, 
gold coins ceased to be minted as a circulating currency in the 1930s, 
and the world gold standard was abandoned for a fiat currency system 
after 1971.

As of 2017, the world's largest gold producer by far was China, with 440 
tonnes per year. A total of around 201,296 tonnes of gold exists above 
ground, as of 2020. This is equal to a cube with each side measuring 
roughly 21.7 meters (71 ft). The world consumption of new gold produced 
is about 50% in jewelry, 40% in investments and 10% in industry. 