Helium (romanized: helios, lit.'sun') is a chemical element with the 
symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, 
non-toxic, inert, monoatomic gas, the first in the noble gas group in 
the periodic table. Its boiling point is the lowest among all the 
elements. Helium is the second lightest and second most abundant element 
in the observable universe (hydrogen is the lightest and most abundant). 
It is present at about 24% of the total elemental mass, which is more than 
12 times the mass of all the heavier elements combined. Its abundance is 
similar to this in both the Sun and in Jupiter. This is due to the very 
high nuclear binding energy (per nucleon) of helium-4, with respect to 
the next three elements after helium. This helium-4 binding energy also 
accounts for why it is a product of both nuclear fusion and radioactive 
decay. Most helium in the universe is helium-4, the vast majority of 
which was formed during the Big Bang. Large amounts of new helium are 
being created by nuclear fusion of hydrogen in stars.

Helium was first detected as an unknown, yellow spectral line signature 
in sunlight, during a solar eclipse in 1868 by Georges Rayet, Captain 
C. T. Haig, Norman R. Pogson, and Lieutenant John Herschel, and was 
subsequently confirmed by French astronomer, Jules Janssen. Janssen is 
often jointly credited with detecting the element, along with Norman 
Lockyer. Janssen recorded the helium spectral line during the solar 
eclipse of 1868, while Lockyer observed it from Britain. Lockyer was 
the first to propose that the line was due to a new element, which he 
named. The formal discovery of the element was made in 1895 by two 
Swedish chemists, Per Teodor Cleve and Nils Abraham Langlet, who found 
helium emanating from the uranium ore, cleveite, which is now not 
regarded as a separate mineral species but as a variety of uraninite. 
In 1903, large reserves of helium were found in natural gas fields in 
parts of the United States, which is by far the largest supplier of 
the gas today.
