Iodine is a chemical element with the symbol I and atomic number 53. The 
heaviest of the stable halogens, it exists as a semi-lustrous, non-metallic 
solid at standard conditions that melts to form a deep violet liquid at 114
 degrees Celsius, and boils to a violet gas at 184 degrees Celsius. The 
element was discovered by the French chemist Bernard Courtois in 1811, and 
was named two years later by Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac, after the Greek 
"violet-coloured".

Iodine occurs in many oxidation states, including iodide (I−), iodate (IO−
3), and the various periodate anions. It is the least abundant of the stable 
halogens, being the sixty-first most abundant element. It is the heaviest 
essential mineral nutrient. Iodine is essential in the synthesis of thyroid 
hormones. Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the 
leading preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.

The dominant producers of iodine today are Chile and Japan. Iodine and its 
compounds are primarily used in nutrition. Due to its high atomic number 
and ease of attachment to organic compounds, it has also found favour as 
a non-toxic radiocontrast material. Because of the specificity of its 
uptake by the human body, radioactive isotopes of iodine can also be used 
to treat thyroid cancer. Iodine is also used as a catalyst in the 
industrial production of acetic acid and some polymers.
In 1811, iodine was discovered by French chemist Bernard Courtois, who was 
born to a manufacturer of saltpetre (an essential component of gunpowder). 
At the time of the Napoleonic Wars, saltpetre was in great demand in France. 
Saltpetre produced from French nitre beds required sodium carbonate, which 
could be isolated from seaweed collected on the coasts of Normandy and 
Brittany. To isolate the sodium carbonate, seaweed was burned and the ash 
washed with water. The remaining waste was destroyed by adding sulfuric
 acid. Courtois once added excessive sulfuric acid and a cloud of purple 
vapour rose. He noted that the vapour crystallised on cold surfaces, making 
dark crystals.