Iridium is a chemical element with the symbol Ir and atomic number 77. 
A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum 
group, iridium is considered to be the second-densest naturally 
occurring metal (after osmium) with a density of 22.56 g/cm3 (0.815 
lb/cu in) as defined by experimental X-ray crystallography. It is the 
most corrosion-resistant metal, even at temperatures as high as 2,000 
°C (3,630 °F). Although only certain molten salts and halogens are 
corrosive to solid iridium, finely divided iridium dust is much more 
reactive and can be flammable.

Iridium was discovered in 1803 among insoluble impurities in natural 
platinum. Smithson Tennant, the primary discoverer, named iridium after 
the Greek goddess Iris, personification of the rainbow, because of the 
striking and diverse colors of its salts. Iridium is one of the rarest 
elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of 
only 3 tonnes (6.6 thousand pounds). 191Ir and 193Ir are the only two 
naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable 
isotopes; the latter is the more abundant.

The most important iridium compounds in use are the salts and acids it 
forms with chlorine, though iridium also forms a number of compounds 
used in industrial catalysis, and in research. Iridium metal is employed 
when high corrosion resistance at high temperatures is needed, as in 
high-performance spark plugs, crucibles for recrystallization of semicon
ductors at high temperatures, and electrodes for the production of chlo
rine in the chloralkali process. Iridium radioisotopes are used in some 
radioisotope thermoelectric generators.

Iridium is found in meteorites in much higher abundance than in the 
Earth's crust. For this reason, the unusually high abundance of iridium 
in the clay layer at the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary gave rise to the 
Alvarez hypothesis that the impact of a massive extraterrestrial object 
caused the extinction of dinosaurs.