Lead is a chemical element with the symbol Pb (from the Latin plumbum) and 
atomic number 82. It is a heavy metal that is denser than most common 
materials. Lead is soft and malleable, and also has a relatively low melting 
point. When freshly cut, lead is silvery with a hint of blue; it tarnishes 
to a dull gray color when exposed to air. Lead has the highest atomic number 
of any stable element and three of its isotopes are endpoints of major nuclear
 decay chains of heavier elements.

Lead is a relatively unreactive post-transition metal. Its weak metallic 
character is illustrated by its amphoteric nature; lead and lead oxides react 
with acids and bases, and it tends to form covalent bonds. Compounds of lead 
are usually found in the +2 oxidation state rather than the +4 state common 
with lighter members of the carbon group. Exceptions are mostly limited to 
organolead compounds. Like the lighter members of the group, lead tends to bond 
with itself; it can form chains and polyhedral structures.

Since lead is easily extracted from its ores, prehistoric people in the Near 
East were aware of it. Galena is a principal ore of lead which often bears 
silver. Interest in silver helped initiate widespread extraction and use of 
lead in ancient Rome. Lead production declined after the fall of Rome and did 
not reach comparable levels until the Industrial Revolution. Lead played a 
crucial role in the development of the printing press, as movable type could 
be relatively easily cast from lead alloys. In 2014, the annual global 
production of lead was about ten million tonnes, over half of which was from 
recycling. Lead's high density, low melting point, ductility and relative 
inertness to oxidation make it useful. These properties, combined with its 
relative abundance and low cost, resulted in its extensive use in construction, 
plumbing, batteries, bullets and shot, weights, solders, pewters, fusible 
alloys, white paints, leaded gasoline, and radiation shielding.

In the late 19th century, lead's toxicity was ecognized widely, although a 
number of well-educated ancient Greek and Roman writers were aware of this 
fact and even knew some of the symptoms of lead poisoning.