Magnesium is a chemical element with the symbol Mg and atomic number 12. 
It is a shiny gray solid which bears a close physical resemblance to the 
other five elements in the second column (group 2, or alkaline earth metals) 
of the periodic table: all group 2 elements have the same electron 
configuration in the outer electron shell and a similar crystal structure.

This element is produced in large, aging stars from the sequential addition 
of three helium nuclei to a carbon nucleus. When such stars explode as 
supernovas, much of the magnesium is expelled into the interstellar medium 
where it may recycle into new star systems. Magnesium is the eighth most 
abundant element in the Earth's crust and the fourth most common element in 
the Earth (after iron, oxygen and silicon), making up 13% of the planet's 
mass and a large fraction of the planet's mantle. It is the third most abundant 
element dissolved in seawater, after sodium and chlorine.

Magnesium occurs naturally only in combination with other elements, where it 
invariably has a +2 oxidation state. The free element (metal) can be produced 
artificially, and is highly reactive (though in the atmosphere it is soon coated 
in a thin layer of oxide that partly inhibits reactivity – see passivation). 
The free metal burns with a characteristic brilliant-white light. The metal is 
now obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine, and 
is used primarily as a component in aluminium-magnesium alloys, sometimes called 
magnalium or magnelium. Magnesium is less dense than aluminium, and the alloy is 
prized for its combination of lightness and strength.

This element is the eleventh most abundant element by mass in the human body and 
is essential to all cells and some 300 enzymes. Magnesium ions interact with 
polyphosphate compounds such as ATP, DNA, and RNA. Hundreds of enzymes require 
magnesium ions to function. Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common 
laxatives, antacids (e.g., milk of magnesia), and to stabilize abnormal nerve 
excitation or blood vessel spasm in such conditions as eclampsia.