Manganese is a chemical element with the symbol Mn and atomic number 25. 
It is not found as a free element in nature;[not verified in body] it is 
often found in minerals in combination with iron. Manganese is a transition 
metal with a multifaceted array of industrial alloy uses, particularly in 
stainless steels.

First isolated in 1774, manganese is mainly used in the production of steel. 
It is familiar in the laboratory in the form of the deep violet salt 
potassium permanganate. It occurs at the active sites in some enzymes. Of 
particular interest is the use of a Mn-O cluster, the oxygen-evolving complex, 
in the production of oxygen by plants.

The origin of the name manganese is complex. In ancient times, two black 
minerals were identified from the regions of the Magnetes (either Magnesia, 
located within modern Greece, or Magnesia ad Sipylum, located within modern 
Turkey). They were both called magnes from their place of origin, but were 
considered to differ in gender. The male magnes attracted iron, and was the 
iron ore now known as lodestone or magnetite, and which probably gave us the 
term magnet. The female magnes ore did not attract iron, but was used to 
decolorize glass. This female magnes was later called magnesia, known now in 
modern times as pyrolusite or manganese dioxide.[citation needed] Neither this 
mineral nor elemental manganese is magnetic. In the 16th century, manganese 
dioxide was called manganesum (note the two Ns instead of one) by glassmakers, 
possibly as a corruption and concatenation of two words, since alchemists and 
glassmakers eventually had to differentiate a magnesia nigra (the black ore) 
from magnesia alba (a white ore, also from Magnesia, also useful in glassmaking). 
Michele Mercati called magnesia nigra manganesa, and finally the metal isolated 
from it became known as manganese (German: Mangan). The name magnesia eventually 
was then used to refer only to the white magnesia alba (magnesium oxide), which 
provided the name magnesium for the free element when it was isolated much later.

Several colorful oxides of manganese, for example manganese dioxide, are abundant 
in nature and have been used as pigments since the Stone Age. The cave paintings 
in Gargas that are 30,000 to 24,000 years old contain manganese pigments.

Manganese compounds were used by Egyptian and Roman glassmakers, either to add 
to, or remove color from glass. Use as "glassmakers soap" continued through the 
Middle Ages until modern times and is evident in 14th-century glass from Venice.