Meitnerium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol Mt and atomic number 109. 
It is an extremely radioactive synthetic element (an element not found in nature, 
but can be created in a laboratory). The most stable known isotope, meitnerium-278, 
has a half-life of 4.5 seconds, although the unconfirmed meitnerium-282 may have a 
longer half-life of 67 seconds. The GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research near 
Darmstadt, Germany, first created this element in 1982. It is named after Lise Meitner.

In the periodic table, meitnerium is a d-block transactinide element. It is a member 
of the 7th period and is placed in the group 9 elements, although no chemical 
experiments have yet been carried out to confirm that it behaves as the heavier 
homologue to iridium in group 9 as the seventh member of the 6d series of transition 
metals. Meitnerium is calculated to have similar properties to its lighter homologues, 
cobalt, rhodium, and iridium.
The heaviest atomic nuclei are created in nuclear reactions that combine two other 
nuclei of unequal size into one; roughly, the more unequal the two nuclei in terms of
 mass, the greater the possibility that the two react. The material made of the heavier 
nuclei is made into a target, which is then bombarded by the beam of lighter nuclei. 
Two nuclei can only fuse into one if they approach each other closely enough; 
normally, nuclei (all positively charged) repel each other due to electrostatic 
repulsion. The strong interaction can overcome this repulsion but only within a very 
short distance from a nucleus; beam nuclei are thus greatly accelerated in order to 
make such repulsion insignificant compared to the velocity of the beam nucleus. Coming 
close alone is not enough for two nuclei to fuse: when two nuclei approach each other, 
they usually remain together for approximately 10−20 seconds and then part ways (not
 necessarily in the same composition as before the reaction) rather than form a single 
nucleus. If fusion does occur, the temporary merger—termed a compound nucleus—is an 
excited state. To lose its excitation energy and reach a more stable state, a compound 
nucleus either fissions or ejects one or several neutrons, which carry away the energy. 
This occurs in approximately 10−16 seconds after the initial collision.