Mendelevium is a synthetic element with the symbol Md (formerly Mv) and atomic 
number 101. A metallic radioactive transuranium element in the actinide series, 
it is the first element by atomic number that currently cannot be produced in 
macroscopic quantities through neutron bombardment of lighter elements. It is 
the third-to-last actinide and the ninth transuranic element. It can only be 
produced in particle accelerators by bombarding lighter elements with charged 
particles. A total of seventeen mendelevium isotopes are known, the most stable 
being 258Md with a half-life of 51 days; nevertheless, the shorter-lived 256Md 
(half-life 1.17 hours) is most commonly used in chemistry because it can be 
produced on a larger scale.

Mendelevium was discovered by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles in 1955, 
the same method still used to produce it today. It was named after Dmitri 
Mendeleev, father of the periodic table of the chemical elements. Using available 
microgram quantities of the isotope einsteinium-253, over a million mendelevium 
atoms may be produced each hour. The chemistry of mendelevium is typical for the 
late actinides, with a preponderance of the +3 oxidation state but also an 
accessible +2 oxidation state. All known isotopes of mendelevium have relatively 
short half-lives; there are currently no uses for it outside basic scientific 
research, and only small amounts are produced.
Mendelevium was the ninth transuranic element to be synthesized. It was first 
synthesized by Albert Ghiorso, Glenn T. Seaborg, Gregory Robert Choppin, Bernard 
G. Harvey, and team leader Stanley G. Thompson in early 1955 at the University of 
California, Berkeley. The team produced 256Md (half-life of 77 minutes) when they 
bombarded an 253Es target consisting of only a billion (109) einsteinium atoms 
with alpha particles (helium nuclei) in the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory's 60-
inch cyclotron, thus increasing the target's atomic number by two. 256Md thus 
became the first isotope of any element to be synthesized one atom at a time. In 
total, seventeen mendelevium atoms were produced.