Moscovium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol Mc and atomic number 115. 
It was first synthesized in 2003 by a joint team of Russian and American scientists 
at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR) in Dubna, Russia. In December 
2015, it was recognized as one of four new elements by the Joint Working Party of 
international scientific bodies IUPAC and IUPAP. On 28 November 2016, it was 
officially named after the Moscow Oblast, in which the JINR is situated.

Moscovium is an extremely radioactive element: its most stable known isotope, 
moscovium-290, has a half-life of only 0.65 seconds. In the periodic table, it is a 
p-block transactinide element. It is a member of the 7th period and is placed in 
group 15 as the heaviest pnictogen, although it has not been confirmed to behave as 
a heavier homologue of the pnictogen bismuth. Moscovium is calculated to have some 
properties similar to its lighter homologues, nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, antimony,
and bismuth, and to be a post-transition metal, although it should also show several 
major differences from them. In particular, moscovium should also have significant 
similarities to thallium, as both have one rather loosely bound electron outside a 
quasi-closed shell. About 100 atoms of moscovium have been observed to date, all of 
which have been shown to have mass numbers from 287 to 290.
The heaviest atomic nuclei are created in nuclear reactions that combine two other 
nuclei of unequal size into one; roughly, the more unequal the two nuclei in terms 
of mass, the greater the possibility that the two react. The material made of the 
heavier nuclei is made into a target, which is then bombarded by the beam of lighter 
nuclei. Two nuclei can only fuse into one if they approach each other closely enough; 
normally, nuclei (all positively charged) repel each other due to electrostatic 
repulsion. The strong interaction can overcome this repulsion but only within a very 
short distance from a nucleus; beam nuclei are thus greatly accelerated in order to
 make such repulsion insignificant compared to the velocity of the beam nucleus.