Neodymium is a chemical element with the symbol Nd and atomic number 60. It is 
the fourth member of the lanthanide series and is traditionally considered to 
be one of the rare-earth metals. It is a hard, slightly malleable, silvery metal 
that quickly tarnishes in air and moisture. When oxidized, neodymium reacts 
quickly to produce pink, purple/blue and yellow compounds in the +2, +3 and +4 
oxidation states. Neodymium was discovered in 1885 by the Austrian chemist Carl 
Auer von Welsbach, who also discovered praseodymium. It is present in significant 
quantities in the ore minerals monazite and bastnäsite. Neodymium is not found 
naturally in metallic form or unmixed with other lanthanides, and it is usually 
refined for general use. Neodymium is fairly common, about as common as cobalt, 
nickel, or copper, and is widely distributed in the Earth's crust. Most of the 
world's commercial neodymium is mined in China, as with many other rare-earth 
metals.

Neodymium compounds were first commercially used as glass dyes in 1927, and they 
remain a popular additive in glasses. The color of neodymium compounds is due to 
the Nd3+ ion and is often a reddish-purple, but it changes with the type of 
lighting, because of the interaction of the sharp light absorption bands of 
neodymium with ambient light enriched with the sharp visible emission bands of 
mercury, trivalent europium or terbium. Some neodymium-doped glasses are used in 
lasers that emit infrared with wavelengths between 1047 and 1062 nanometers. 
These have been used in extremely-high-power applications, such as experiments 
in inertial confinement fusion. Neodymium is also used with various other 
substrate crystals, such as yttrium aluminium garnet in the Nd:YAG laser.

Another important use of neodymium is as a component in the alloys used to make 
high-strength neodymium magnets—powerful permanent magnets. These magnets are 
widely used in such products as microphones, professional loudspeakers, in-ear 
headphones, high performance hobby DC electric motors, and computer hard disks, 
where low magnet mass (or volume) or strong magnetic fields are required. Larger 
neodymium magnets are used in high-power-versus-weight electric motors (for 
example in hybrid cars) and generators (for example aircraft and wind turbine 
electric generators).