Nickel is a chemical element with the symbol Ni and atomic number 28. 
It is a silvery-white lustrous metal with a slight golden tinge. Nickel 
belongs to the transition metals and is hard and ductile. Pure nickel, 
powdered to maximize the reactive surface area, shows a significant 
chemical activity, but larger pieces are slow to react with air under 
standard conditions because an oxide layer forms on the surface and 
prevents further corrosion (passivation). Even so, pure native nickel 
is found in Earth's crust only in tiny amounts, usually in ultramafic 
rocks, and in the interiors of larger nickel–iron meteorites that were 
not exposed to oxygen when outside Earth's atmosphere.

Meteoric nickel is found in combination with iron, a reflection of the 
origin of those elements as major end products of supernova nucleosynthesis. 
An iron–nickel mixture is thought to compose Earth's outer and inner cores.

Use of nickel (as a natural meteoric nickel–iron alloy) has been traced as 
far back as 3500 BCE. Nickel was first isolated and classified as a chemical 
element in 1751 by Axel Fredrik Cronstedt, who initially mistook the ore for 
a copper mineral, in the cobalt mines of Los, Halsingland, Sweden. The 
element's name comes from a mischievous sprite of German miner mythology, 
Nickel (similar to Old Nick), who personified the fact that copper-nickel 
ores resisted refinement into copper. An economically important source of 
nickel is the iron ore limonite, which often contains 1–2% nickel. Nickel's 
other important ore minerals include pentlandite and a mixture of Ni-rich 
natural silicates known as garnierite. Major production sites include the 
Sudbury region in Canada (which is thought to be of meteoric origin), New 
Caledonia in the Pacific, and Norilsk in Russia.

Nickel is slowly oxidized by air at room temperature and is considered 
corrosion-resistant. Historically, it has been used for plating iron and 
brass, coating chemistry equipment, and manufacturing certain alloys that 
retain a high silvery polish, such as German silver. About 9% of world nickel 
production is still used for corrosion-resistant nickel plating. Nickel-plated 
objects sometimes provoke nickel allergy. Nickel has been widely used in coins, 
though its rising price has led to some replacement with cheaper metals in 
recent years.