Polonium is a chemical element with the symbol Po and atomic number 84. 
Polonium is a chalcogen. A rare and highly radioactive metal with no 
stable isotopes, polonium is chemically similar to selenium and tellurium, 
though its metallic character resembles that of its horizontal neighbors 
in the periodic table: thallium, lead, and bismuth. Due to the short half-
life of all its isotopes, its natural occurrence is limited to tiny traces 
of the fleeting polonium-210 (with a half-life of 138 days) in uranium ores, 
as it is the penultimate daughter of natural uranium-238. Though slightly 
longer-lived isotopes exist, they are much more difficult to produce. Today, 
polonium is usually produced in milligram quantities by the neutron 
irradiation of bismuth. Due to its intense radioactivity, which results in 
the radiolysis of chemical bonds and radioactive self-heating, its chemistry 
has mostly been investigated on the trace scale only.

Polonium was discovered in July 1898 by Marie Sklodowska-Curie and Pierre 
Curie, when it was extracted from the uranium ore pitchblende and identified 
solely by its strong radioactivity: it was the first element to be so 
discovered. Polonium was named after Marie Curie's homeland of Poland. Polonium 
has few applications, and those are related to its radioactivity: heaters in 
space probes, antistatic devices, sources of neutrons and alpha particles, and 
poison. It is extremely dangerous to humans.
Polonium is a radioactive element that exists in two metallic allotropes. The 
alpha form is the only known example of a simple cubic crystal structure in a 
single atom basis at STP, with an edge length of 335.2 picometers; the beta 
form is rhombohedral. The structure of polonium has been characterized by X-ray
 diffraction and electron diffraction.

210Po (in common with 238Pu) has the ability to become airborne with ease: if 
a sample is heated in air to 55 °C (131 °F), 50% of it is vaporized in 45 hours 
to form diatomic Po2 molecules, even though the melting point of polonium is 
254 °C (489 °F) and its boiling point is 962 °C (1,764 °F).