Potassium is a chemical element with the symbol K (from Neo-Latin kalium) 
and atomic number 19. Potassium is a silvery-white metal that is soft enough 
to be cut with a knife with little force. Potassium metal reacts rapidly 
with atmospheric oxygen to form flaky white potassium peroxide in only 
seconds of exposure. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, 
from which its name derives. In the periodic table, potassium is one of the 
alkali metals, all of which have a single valence electron in the outer 
electron shell, that is easily removed to create an ion with a positive charge 
– a cation, that combines with anions to form salts. Potassium in nature 
occurs only in ionic salts. Elemental potassium reacts vigorously with water, 
generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction, and 
burning with a lilac-colored flame. It is found dissolved in sea water (which 
is 0.04% potassium by weight), and occurs in many minerals such as orthoclase, 
a common constituent of granites and other igneous rocks.

Potassium is chemically very similar to sodium, the previous element in group 
1 of the periodic table. They have a similar first ionization energy, which 
allows for each atom to give up its sole outer electron. It was suspected in 
1702 that they were distinct elements that combine with the same anions to 
make similar salts, and was proven in 1807 using electrolysis. Naturally 
occurring potassium is composed of three isotopes, of which 40 K is 
radioactive. Traces of 40
K are found in all potassium, and it is the most common radioisotope in the 
human body.

Potassium ions are vital for the functioning of all living cells. The 
transfer of potassium ions across nerve cell membranes is necessary for 
normal nerve transmission; potassium deficiency and excess can each result 
in numerous signs and symptoms, including an abnormal heart rhythm and 
various electrocardiographic abnormalities. Fresh fruits and vegetables are 
good dietary sources of potassium. The body responds to the influx of dietary 
potassium, which raises serum potassium levels, with a shift of potassium from 
outside to inside cells and an increase in potassium excretion by the kidneys.

Most industrial applications of potassium exploit the high solubility in water 
of potassium compounds, such as potassium soaps. Heavy crop production rapidly 
depletes the soil of potassium, and this can be remedied with agricultural 
fertilizers containing potassium, accounting for 95% of global potassium 
chemical production.