Ruthenium is a chemical element with the symbol Ru and atomic number 44. 
It is a rare transition metal belonging to the platinum group of the periodic
 table. Like the other metals of the platinum group, ruthenium is inert to 
most other chemicals. Russian-born scientist of Baltic-German ancestry Karl 
Ernst Claus discovered the element in 1844 at Kazan State University and named 
ruthenium in honor of Russia. Ruthenium is usually found as a minor 
component of platinum ores; the annual production has risen from about 19 
tonnes in 2009 to some 35.5 tonnes in 2017. Most ruthenium produced is used in 
wear-resistant electrical contacts and thick-film resistors. A minor application 
for ruthenium is in platinum alloys and as a chemistry catalyst. A new 
application of ruthenium is as the capping layer for extreme ultraviolet 
photomasks. Ruthenium is generally found in ores with the other platinum group 
metals in the Ural Mountains and in North and South America. Small but 
commercially important quantities are also found in pentlandite extracted from 
Sudbury, Ontario and in pyroxenite deposits in South Africa.
Ruthenium has four crystal modifications and does not tarnish at ambient 
conditions; it oxidizes upon heating to 800 °C (1,070 K). Ruthenium dissolves 
in fused alkalis to give ruthenates (RuO2−
4), is not attacked by acids (even aqua regia) but is attacked by halogens at 
high temperatures. Indeed, ruthenium is most readily attacked by oxidizing 
agents. Small amounts of ruthenium can increase the hardness of platinum and 
palladium. The corrosion resistance of titanium is increased markedly by the 
addition of a small amount of ruthenium. The metal can be plated by 
electroplating and by thermal decomposition. A ruthenium-molybdenum alloy is 
known to be superconductive at temperatures below 10.6 K. Ruthenium is the 
only 4d transition metal that can assume the group oxidation state +8, and even 
then it is less stable there than the heavier congener osmium.