Scandium is a chemical element with the symbol Sc and atomic number 21. 
A silvery-white metallic d-block element, it has historically been 
classified as a rare-earth element, together with yttrium and the 
lanthanides. It was discovered in 1879 by spectral analysis of the 
minerals euxenite and gadolinite from Scandinavia.

Scandium is present in most of the deposits of rare-earth and uranium 
compounds, but it is extracted from these ores in only a few mines 
worldwide. Because of the low availability and the difficulties in the 
preparation of metallic scandium, which was first done in 1937, 
applications for scandium were not developed until the 1970s, when the 
positive effects of scandium on aluminium alloys were discovered, and 
its use in such alloys remains its only major application. The global 
trade of scandium oxide is 15-20 tonnes per year.

The properties of scandium compounds are intermediate between those of 
aluminium and yttrium. A diagonal relationship exists between the 
behavior of magnesium and scandium, just as there is between beryllium 
and aluminium. In the chemical compounds of the elements in group 3, 
the predominant oxidation state is +3.

Scandium is a soft metal with a silvery appearance. It develops a 
slightly yellowish or pinkish cast when oxidized by air. It is susceptible 
to weathering and dissolves slowly in most dilute acids. It does not 
react with a 1:1 mixture of nitric acid (HNO3) and 48% hydrofluoric acid 
(HF), possibly due to the formation of an impermeable passive layer. 
Scandium turnings ignite in the air with a brilliant yellow flame to form 
scandium oxide.

In Earth's crust, scandium is not rare. Estimates vary from 18 to 25 ppm, 
which is comparable to the abundance of cobalt (20-30 ppm). Scandium is 
only the 50th most common element on Earth (35th most abundant in the crust),
 but it is the 23rd most common element in the Sun. However, scandium is 
distributed sparsely and occurs in trace amounts in many minerals.
