Sulfur (in British English: sulphur) is a chemical element with the symbol 
S and atomic number 16. It is abundant, multivalent and nonmetallic. Under 
normal conditions, sulfur atoms form cyclic octatomic molecules with a 
chemical formula S8. Elemental sulfur is a bright yellow, crystalline solid 
at room temperature.

Sulfur is the tenth most common element by mass in the universe, and the 
fifth most common on Earth. Though sometimes found in pure, native form, 
sulfur on Earth usually occurs as sulfide and sulfate minerals. Being 
abundant in native form, sulfur was known in ancient times, being mentioned 
for its uses in ancient India, ancient Greece, China, and Egypt. Historically 
and in literature sulfur is also called brimstone, which means "burning stone". 
Today, almost all elemental sulfur is produced as a byproduct of removing 
sulfur-containing contaminants from natural gas and petroleum. The greatest 
commercial use of the element is the production of sulfuric acid for sulfate 
and phosphate fertilizers, and other chemical processes. The element sulfur is 
used in matches, insecticides, and fungicides. Many sulfur compounds are 
odoriferous, and the smells of odorized natural gas, skunk scent, grapefruit, 
and garlic are due to organosulfur compounds. Hydrogen sulfide gives the 
characteristic odor to rotting eggs and othr biological processes.

Sulfur is an essential element for all life, but almost always in the form 
of organosulfur compounds or metal sulfides. Three amino acids (cysteine, 
cystine, and methionine) and two vitamins (biotin and thiamine) are 
organosulfur compounds. Many cofactors also contain sulfur, including 
glutathione, thioredoxin, and iron–sulfur proteins. Disulfides, S–S bonds, 
confer mechanical strength and insolubility of the protein keratin, found 
in outer skin, hair, and feathers. Sulfur is one of the core chemical elements 
needed for biochemical functioning and is an elemental macronutrient for 
all living organisms.