Titanium is a chemical element with the symbol Ti and atomic number 22. 
Its atomic weight is 47.867 measured in daltons. It is a lustrous 
transition metal with a silver color, low density, and high strength. 
Titanium is resistant to corrosion in sea water, aqua regia, and chlorine.

Titanium was discovered in Cornwall, Great Britain, by William Gregor in 
1791 and was named by Martin Heinrich Klaproth after the Titans of Greek 
mythology. The element occurs within a number of mineral deposits, 
principally rutile and ilmenite, which are widely distributed in the 
Earth's crust and lithosphere; it is found in almost all living things, 
as well as bodies of water, rocks, and soils. The metal is extracted from 
its principal mineral ores by the Kroll and Hunter processes. The most 
common compound, titanium dioxide, is a popular photocatalyst and is used 
in the manufacture of white pigments. Other compounds include titanium 
tetrachloride (TiCl4), a component of smoke screens and catalysts; and 
titanium trichloride (TiCl3), which is used as a catalyst in the production 
of polypropylene.

Titanium can be alloyed with iron, aluminium, vanadium, and molybdenum, 
among other elements, to produce strong, lightweight alloys for aerospace 
(jet engines, missiles, and spacecraft), military, industrial processes 
(chemicals and petrochemicals, desalination plants, pulp, and paper), 
automotive, agriculture (farming), medical prostheses, orthopedic implants, 
dental and endodontic instruments and files, dental implants, sporting goods, 
jewelry, mobile phones, and other applications.

The two most useful properties of the metal are corrosion resistance and 
strength-to-density ratio, the highest of any metallic element. In its 
unalloyed condition, titanium is as strong as some steels, but less dense. 
There are two allotropic forms and five naturally occurring isotopes of this
element, 46Ti through 50Ti, with 48Ti being the most abundant (73.8%). 
Although titanium and zirconium have the same number of valence electrons 
and are in the same group in the periodic table, they differ in many chemical 
and physical properties.