Vanadium is a chemical element with the symbol V and atomic number 23. 
It is a hard, silvery-grey, malleable transition metal. The elemental 
metal is rarely found in nature, but once isolated artificially, the 
formation of an oxide layer (passivation) somewhat stabilizes the free 
metal against further oxidation.

Andres Manuel del Rio discovered compounds of vanadium in 1801 in Mexico 
by analyzing a new lead-bearing mineral he called "brown lead". Though 
he initially presumed its qualities were due to the presence of a new 
element, he was later erroneously convinced by French chemist Hippolyte 
Victor Collet-Descotils that the element was just chromium. Then in 1830, 
Nils Gabriel Sefstrom generated chlorides of vanadium, thus proving there 
was a new element, and named it "vanadium" after the Scandinavian goddess 
of beauty and fertility, Vanadis (Freyja). The name was based on the wide 
range of colors found in vanadium compounds. Del Rio's lead mineral was 
ultimately named vanadinite for its vanadium content. In 1867 Henry Enfield 
Roscoe obtained the pure element.

Vanadium occurs naturally in about 65 minerals and in fossil fuel deposits. 
It is produced in China and Russia from steel smelter slag. Other countries 
produce it either from magnetite directly, flue dust of heavy oil, or as a 
byproduct of uranium mining. It is mainly used to produce specialty steel 
alloys such as high-speed tool steels, and some aluminium alloys. The most 
important industrial vanadium compound, vanadium pentoxide, is used as a 
catalyst for the production of sulfuric acid. The vanadium redox battery for 
energy storage may be an important application in the future.

Large amounts of vanadium ions are found in a few organisms, possibly as a 
toxin. The oxide and some other salts of vanadium have moderate toxicity. 
Particularly in the ocean, vanadium is used by some life forms as an active 
center of enzymes, such as the vanadium bromoperoxidase of some ocean algae.

Vanadium is a medium-hard, ductile, steel-blue metal. It is electrically 
conductive and thermally insulating. Some sources describe vanadium as "soft", 
perhaps because it is ductile, malleable, and not brittle. Vanadium is harder 
than most metals and steels. It has good resistance to corrosion and it is 
stable against alkalis and sulfuric and hydrochloric acids. It is oxidized in 
air at about 933 K (660 degree C, 1220 degree F), although an oxide passivation 
layer forms even at room temperature.