Zinc is a chemical element with the symbol Zn and atomic number 30. 
Zinc is a slightly brittle metal at room temperature and has a 
silvery-greyish appearance when oxidation is removed. It is the first 
element in group 12 (IIB) of the periodic table. In some respects, 
zinc is chemically similar to magnesium: both elements exhibit only 
one normal oxidation state (+2), and the Zn2+ and Mg2+ ions are of 
similar size. Zinc is the 24th most abundant element in Earth's crust 
and has five stable isotopes. The most common zinc ore is sphalerite 
(zinc blende), a zinc sulfide mineral. The largest workable lodes are 
in Australia, Asia, and the United States. Zinc is refined by froth 
flotation of the ore, roasting, and final extraction using electricity 
(electrowinning).

Brass, an alloy of copper and zinc in various proportions, was used as 
early as the third millennium BC in the Aegean area and the region which 
currently includes Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Kalmykia, Turkmenistan 
and Georgia. In the second millennium BC it was used in the regions 
currently including West India, Uzbekistan, Iran, Syria, Iraq, and Israel. 
Zinc metal was not produced on a large scale until the 12th century in 
India, though it was known to the ancient Romans and Greeks. The mines of 
Rajasthan have given definite evidence of zinc production going back to the 
6th century BC. To date, the oldest evidence of pure zinc comes from Zawar, 
in Rajasthan, as early as the 9th century AD when a distillation process was 
employed to make pure zinc.[8] Alchemists burned zinc in air to form what 
they called "philosopher's wool" or "white snow".

The element was probably named by the alchemist Paracelsus after the German 
word Zinke (prong, tooth). German chemist Andreas Sigismund Marggraf is 
credited with discovering pure metallic zinc in 1746. Work by Luigi Galvani 
and Alessandro Volta uncovered the electrochemical properties of zinc by 1800. 
Corrosion-resistant zinc plating of iron (hot-dip galvanizing) is the major 
application for zinc. Other applications are in electrical batteries, small 
non-structural castings, and alloys such as brass. A variety of zinc compounds 
are commonly used, such as zinc carbonate and zinc gluconate (as dietary 
supplements), zinc chloride (in deodorants), zinc pyrithione (anti-dandruff 
shampoos), zinc sulfide (in luminescent paints), and dimethylzinc or 
diethylzinc in the organic laboratory.